---
layout: post
title:  "Is green tea the magical drink you have been waiting for ?"
author: sal
categories: [ green tea, fat loss ]
image: assets/images/post10.png
---



First Kale and now green tea. 
Really, a leaf getting so much importance for losing those extra inches? 

Anything green and tasting like dirt is media’s shining star to attract ones who desperately need to lose weight. Green tea is yet another facade claiming to “melt” away the fat but to be honest, it is just another addition to an already long list of magical food and drinks. And just like other 65389 magical foods on that list, alone it does not work to lose weight.

So, if you are drinking this awful tasting drink every single morning and cursing your life in the name of losing fat, know why it might not work for you : 

Green tea tastes like dirt, let’s accept that, so people add sugar or milk to it which is just increasing the calories of this magical drink. Now you have a drink which has high calories and still tastes like dirt. Seriously, ditch it now because it won't lead to any fat loss. Unless you are in a state of calories deficit, no magical drink will work. Moreover, you have better-tasting drinks like diet sodas or coke which are ZERO calories and control your hunger pangs. 
More calories 

Now you are drinking this magical drink every single morning so you can hog on everything and still “melt” that fat, right? **Wrong**. This is a major reason why you will fail to lose weight. 

People assume that they can eat everything and still lose weight because, hello - green tea but they are just in taking a lot of calories and not burning enough. Hence this would take an opposite turn for them and rather than losing fat, they might gain extra weight. 

Get bored - drinking green tea every morning is as boring as a rock. You can't add flavors to it to suit your taste, it's just darn boring. And just like your boring af ex-girlfriend, you will ditch this drink too. Now you gave up on a drink which “promised” to lose weight but you gave up on it and you just failed in losing weight. TBH, you didn’t fail in losing weight but failed in knowing how to lose weight. 

Green tea is not the unicorn you can ride to lose weight. There is no magical drink or food that alone can help you lose weight if this was the case you could hog on burgers and pizzas and just melt away the fat with such drink/food. The only way to lose weight is to be in a state of calories deficit, i.e eat less than what your body requires for energy expenditure. Those claiming to lose 10kgs while drinking green tea, they didn’t lose weight just because they were drinking green tea. They lost weight because they started making healthy choices all together like decreasing portion size or start being active. 

You really do not need to suffer to lose weight, just start making smart choices in your diet and stay away from fucking dirt tasting leaves. 