---
layout: post
title:  "Sunday QnA - #1"
author: sal
categories: [ qna ]
image: assets/images/qna.png
tags: [QnA]
---
Hey,

In my email, I asked you guys to send me your questions on all things training and nutrition. I'll be answering few of them in this post. 

As the title of this post suggests, this is part of `Sunday’s Q&A series`. So, without further ado, let's get into the Q&A.
 


# I am determined to lose my belly fat. I have lost nearly 11 kgs in the last 6 months. but the belly fat is still there. Can you give me some tip regarding that?

Belly fat is a troublesome area for most people and especially for Indian Population, it’s the last body part to lose fat. The most common mistake that people do to reduce belly fat is focusing more on abs exercise than their diet.

Doing 100s crunches won’t help you lose the belly fat.

The only way to get rid of it is to continue eating in calories deficit. Keep eating in calories deficit until you reach really low body fat % ( around 10-12% for men and 18-20% for women).


# How to maintain diet in hostels where there’s not much good food to eat?

 
Living in a hostel might look like the worst situation when trying to get fit. But it’s possible to maintain your diet. I lived in the hostel and strived to maintain a proper diet and workout regime. But I did it, see for yourself.

This was me in my last year of college.


I get it, you won’t have many options to choose for your meals but if you can make a diet plan around the available food in mess, then you can achieve your goals.
Some tips would be :
Reduce the mindless snacking during evening such as chips, samosas, cold drinks etc.
 
Get good quality protein such as chicken,  eggs or whey.
 
Keep an induction in your room and cook simples meals like an omelet, salt and pepper chicken ( I used to have an induction back in my hostel and it helped me a lot to stick with my diet.)

# Indian diet plan for weight loss :

First and Foremost, let’s get it cleared that you don’t need to eat just boiled chicken, broccoli, and rice to lose fat. I know most of the social influencers eat such meals but you don’t have to do it. You could be eating anything and still lose weight.

The only thing to keep in mind is to be in a calories deficit.

Have chapatis, rice, dal, rajma, dosa but keep a control on the quantity. That’s where science and magic happens. 


# I already got abs 2-3 times but it’s difficult for me to maintain that body because of eating boring boiled chicken breast and egg whites

Again, you don’t have to eat boiled chicken just because you see everyone on the internet doing it.

Brah, they follow bro-science but you don’t have to be the same. Maintaining abs is difficult throughout the year and it’s not healthy. Your body needs proper nutrition and eating way low calories 365 days is just not healthy.

# I am following a low carb diet and my target is to shed another 8 kgs, I try to take my protein intake from plant protein like beans, chickpea etc but I go high on carbs compared to protein. Can you please suggest me some way so that I can keep my carbs and protein in sync? 

Taking protein from vegetarian source will include carbs along with them. If you want to go on low carbs diet then you have to intake protein sources like chicken and whey protein.

Chicken and Whey have the least amount of carbs quantity per gram of protein.


# I eat in a calorie deficit and track the calories I eat in the app but I am still not losing weight.

Then you are not eating in a deficit. Simple.

To make sure you are eating less than you are burning so as to lose weight, either increase your activity level or decrease the calories further.


# If I am on a diet that contains 1200 calories per day then approximately how many calories should I burn per day? If I have fruits more in a day like a papaya, guava, apple is that makes a difference in weight gain? If carbohydrates are more in my diet then does it converts into fat? 

 
To lose weight, you should burn more than 1200 calories per day. The quantity of fruits matters more than what you are eating.
Also, carbohydrates won’t turn into fat if you are eating in a calories deficit. 

# I need help regarding supplements for training. Which supplements do you take right now?

I will be discussing supplements in detail later but currently, I use a stack of whey, creatine, and caffeine. 


These were some common question I get asked most of the time. If you have any more question, comment below or email to me at `caloriesqueen@gmail.com` . 


Talk soon,
- Calories Queen.